---
title: "Day 5: Nice flex"
date: 2026-04-26
---

I gotta say, I'm highkey so excited to see that today's lessons are in flexbox. I LOVE flexbox, and whenever someone asks me to teach them how to build a website, it's my go to because it's so pleasant
and easy to work with that once I help them get set up they can usually manage it from there. (Even if they think I can't, I can mostly just nudge them toward a certain part of the code we wrote and then
get that "Oh!" as it clicks for them.) That said, I'm definitly no expert, and it does have some quirks that trip me up when I'm trying to do anything more advanced with it, so I'm really looking forward to building a more technical understanding of how it all works.

Ironically I had already done most of the reading/played the game listed in the assignment. I went back and did them again for the purposes of following along with the course. The activites were mostly straight-forward, but the last one broke me. I'm not sure where the mistake is, but I ended up having to set a height on the card container to stop the cards from stretching all the way to the bottom (I suspect they were trying to take the height of the sidebar?). An alternate solution using align-items also worked, but neither of them is correct and the end result of both was that there was no extra white-spacing at the bottom of my cards when there is in both the examples and the solution. After re-doing it from scratch once, arriving at the exact same result, then messing with it for a couple hours with no progress, I've decided to push it "as is" for now and move on with my life. Because of the extra time I spent trying to figure this out, the project will have to be done on day 6.

Update: I solved the whole thing by making the cards wider, though now I'm thinking if I were making this site to use, or as a baseline to get someone I know up and running and let them maintain it fror there (a common use-case for me), I would rather have my "wrong" solution so the cards are more solid and don't fall apart and break the whole layout just by *slightly* adjusting the width.
