---
title: "Day 9: Functions and Paths"
date: 2026-05-2
---

Woke up this morning, and did do SOME reading comparing js to RoR, just not rabbit holes like last night. Also did the Ruby in 20 minutes course from Ruby Language, because the idea of going into choosing
a path blindly just does not sit right with me at all, especially when you're specifically told to stick with it and not double back once you pick. So where am I leaning after a little bit of research and
some very light experience with both languages? The end result is going to be largely dependant on how the rest of the foundations lessons go, but right now I am fully leaning toward javascript. I don't
have any love for Mongo and would much rather work with mySQL, especially since I do have some (outdated) experience with PHP & SQL and would like to bring that back up to date and expand it in the near
future, but js just feels more versatile to me and I think I want to continue with it for now. Full disclosure: I am secretly planning to complete the path and *then* go back to the fork in the road and
take the other. Whether this happens remains to be seen especially since I don't know how much time it will take to complete the javascript path, and I may well run into my first semester and simply be
too busy with coursework to dedicate a workable amount of time to TOP at that point, but yeah: the current plan is continue on with Javascript, see that path to completion, then double back and learn Ruby,
while researching comparable course options for PHP.

Finished the Basic Functions assignments, but just barely. The PC started making some sounds that to me sound like the beginning of hard drive grinding. It was due for a good cleaning anyway, it's a hand me down that sat abandoned for about 3-4 years so it was covered in dust. Also the power supply was making more noise than I thought it should be, so yeah cleaning and check-up was already on my to-do list. I was just waiting for tax money, which I have now. So that'll get taken care of next week, but in the meantime I have it off to not make the problem any worse, and I'm using the laptop w/Kylin VM to do my assignments, except for some reason this VM has constant connection issues, despite lots of troubleshooting and following every scrap of advice I could find. Very fun while working on code snippits, hitting a wall, and trying to quickly refer back to the reading to troubleshoot. Means I'm probably done for the night tbh, I'm so over fighting with it rn.
