---
title: "Day 2: Console refreshers"
date: 2026-04-23
---

Starting the post now and I will just add as I go, that's probably how I'll do most of these logs. I don't have much to say yet, I basically live in the console as it is so none of this is new material to me. I am diligently following along with each step though, just to be a good student, and to avoid missing something that I might actually not know yet by skimming through. My only real note so far is that Tilix is ugly as sin. I miss Helix/WT/Oh-My-Posh, and it's *almost* enough to make me go running back to WSL. Maybe on one of my breaks I'll see what my options are for a nicer looking console on Budgie.

The lesson on using Git would've been insanely helpful to me while I was struggling to set this page up on my own last night. At least I feel like I have somewhat of a grasp on things now. Next up is html/css so I'm excited because I love playing around with sites.

Basic stuff, but of course it would be at this point. Like a good noodle, I did the exercises instead of skipping past because "I already know all this". The videos felt really redundant just because the lessons have you write all the things, and then the videos talk as though you've never seen the tags before in your life, felt like they should have come the other way round, and I have to remind myself that people who've had zero experience and are taking the course probably really benefit from this level of repetition. And anyway, I'm not here to critique the course - I'm here to follow it, so I'll shut up about that. On Git commits now, but it is both my long break on the timer and almost time to get picked up for dinner, so I'm gonna have to wait on that one.

Unrelated to the course but Budgie, by virtue of being a VM, is REALLY struggling to play all the videos, so unfortunately I'm having to resort to keeping a browser tab open to my Odin dashboard on the host, clicking the button to get to my current page, watching the video, then switching back to the VM. This process is probably heavily contributing to how I feel about the videos overall honestly.
