Making this post a day late oops. I went into today really hesitantly to be honest. Previous attempts at javascript have always resulted in lots of frustration, me going yeah I don't get any of this, and 
ultimately just giving up. So when I was doing pretty good at stuff I'm already familiar with and then saw the next part was javascript the mental brakes kinda schreeched. And then I did the lesson and 
the first page of the assignment and was like wait, I'm sort of grasping this for once, and was feeling pretty good about it... and then the rest of the assignment was several pages of theoretical math 
basically and I'm still only like 1/3 of the way through the last page. I don't even dislike math, I was getting honor roll grades in AP algebra in high school, and I recently put myself through a crash
course on khan academy for like a month, where I was going through algebra and a little geometry at about the same rate I'm tackling TOP, in order to prep for my college entrance exam. And I'm about to 
reopen that to help my best friend prep for hers while making sure I haven't fallen behind since I'll have a math class in the fall. So the problem isn't "eww it's math" it's just incredibly long and dull 
to read (literally not through the assignment largely because I was falling asleep during the reading), and also annoying when I was just getting hyped about finally starting to understand the code and 
then it stopped and we switched to numbers. But like, I'm trying to remind myself there's a reason WHY it's suddenly all about the numbers, and also that the only way out is through. Just yeah it's a slog
 so I don't have much in the way of updates, and may not for day 8 either depending what the next lesson looks like.
